Now that we understand the basic nature of the data we're dealing with,
let's perform some simple data analysis.
So let's ask for example ourselves,
what are the top grossing movies in this DVD rental store?
If we look to this schema,
we will find that we have the movies here in this table called film,
and we have the payments here.
This is where people pay actually amounts of money.
But we will see that there is no relation between the payments and the film.
So, to go, you have the payments and when you pay something,
you pay it for a rental.
So there's this instance called the rental.
The rental actually is also not linked to a movie,
the rental is linked to an inventory item,
and then the inventory item points to a movie.
So in order for us to be able to go from here to there,
you have to go like this.
This is actually the type of questions that,
or the type of things that would make the business users really not
kind of understanding how to jump and join tables in this manner.
So we take a look here and,
oh, yeah we can get that this title,
we got a rental rate and a rating and we possibly,
this is actually the film alone yet,
we didn't join yet.
So I guess I can do it like that.
So this is the film alone,
these are the payments alone,
and then this is the inventory alone.
We can take a look each one of them,
and then we can get for every movie,
how much did the customer pay and when.
How do we do that?
We have to do the join on the rental,
join on the inventory,
join on the film.
So we have to actually select from the payments table,
then join here on the rental,
so we have to choose a join key between the payments rental id and the rental rental id.
So we're actually jumping this relationship here where we have the rental
id is going to give us the corresponding rental id here.
Then we go from here,
and we go from the inventory
id into this inventory id which is, we're doing it like that.
We're using this actually rental r, inventory i,
film f to just shorten our SQL queries,
and finally, we're going to get for each title the amount we paid.
I have to warn you here that I am doing limit a lot because in
Jupiter is very nice because we can interleave documentation, do things interactively,
but actually if you get lots of data out,
like if I leave this and I get 16,000 payments or so,
this table becomes really big in Jupiter and actually the notebook
will not crash but it's going to become like very heavy and irresponsive to work with.
So now that we know how each movie,
when was the rental and how much did the customer pay,
let us then actually group by all the movies,
like for each movie group by that movie and sum the amount.
So this is the same thing except here that we're summing the amount,
instead of showing it like this we're summing it,
and we'll call it revenue.
Then we're grouping by title,
and then we are ordering descendingly in a descending order by the revenue.
And that's how we get those numbers.
Actually this database has kind of like very fictitious names for everything,
so these are not actually real movies,
I do not support any anyhow.